# CS-330
Computer Graphics &amp; Visualization

I approach designing software differently depending on what I am designing. In this class, the code was more artistic than functional, which allows for a more artistic process than something like an app with users would require. For this project, I chose a scene to use as a reference and created it piece by piece. I started by adding shapes and editing their positions and colors to represent the objects in the photograph. Then I added details like textures, lighting, and movement to the scene. At the textures stage, I decided to make the scene more unique by creating my own textures. Obviously, these textures made the scene less realistic, but I thought they worked well together and created a more personalized scene.  

This project has helped me to understand each piece of a 3D scene and how they come together to create what we see and interact with. It’s been realy interesting watching animated films like Toy Story after completing this project and thinking about how groundbreaking those works were (they had to have “rendering farms” and set the position of each model frame by frame at 24fps). I think that the ability to break things down into simple shapes was developed throughout this project and is very helpful in all forms of art and design. Additionally, I learned how to better consider things like lighting, textures, and computation limitations, which are all very important. 

The design process involved learning about and implementing each piece of the scene one by one. In future designs, I would probably work in a similar way, but with more planning to help make the code more effective. I think that if I understand what I’ll be doing, especially anything repetitive, before I begin I will have an easier time creating useful custom functions. Additionally, testing changes before moving on is very important for mkaing issues easy to debug.  

Throughout the milestones, my approach to development shifted because of my familiarity with the projects. At first, I was less sure what parts I should be changing or which files I needed to focus on. By the end of the project, this was all obvious. I was able to understand what was going on before attempting to make changes, which is very helpful.  

Computer science can help me reach my goals in many ways. I have many interests, including computer science, information security, biology, learning foreign languages, drawing and painting, and much more. I believe a solid foundation in computer science can help in all current and future interest areas. No matter the industry, successful and innovative companies today can practically all be understood as tech companies who specialize in tech for their industry. Innovation at this point requires an understanding of computer science.  

Computational graphics and visualizations give me the appreciation for modern 3D art as well as necessary understanding of the basics of computer graphics and their limitations, in case I want to include them in a future project. I think that learning to understand the code before trying to change it will be very helpful moving forward. This, along with the confidence in my abilities, will be very beneficial for me in my professional life.  
